---
title: "Brigade 2.6.0 and Friends"
slug: "2022-06-03-brigade-2.6.0-and-friends"
description: "Brigade 2.6.0 has been released"
date: "2022-06-03"
author: "Kent Rancourt"
summary: "Brigade 2.6.0 and several new peripherals have been released!"
---

Hello, Brigadiers! We hope everyone's had a great week! It's certainly been a
great one for us because we're closing it out with the release of Brigade v2.6.0
and a few new peripherals!

Brigade v2.6.0 continues the trend of small, frequent releases that are more
evolutionary than revolutionary. Apart from the bug fixes, doc improvements, and
other maintenance that go into every release, there's just one noteworthy change
in v2.6.0 -- Brigade is now allowing longer label and qualifier values on events
and in projects' event subscriptions. As small a change as this may seem, it's a
key enabler for an important new peripheral...

Today, we're announcing that the
[Brigade CloudEvents Gateway](https://github.com/brigadecore/brigade-cloudevents-gateway)
has reached general availability with its v1.0.0 release. Support for
CloudEvents is _monumentally_ important because of its broadly useful potential
for integrating Brigade with innumerable third-party services that also act as
CloudEvent producers.

To illustrate this new gateway's utility, let's consider Microsoft Azure.
[Azure Event Grid](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/event-grid/overview)
can subscribe to events originating from many, if not most, types of Azure
resources, transform them to CloudEvents, and deliver those over HTTPS to any
CloudEvents consumer -- such as the Brigade CloudEvents gateway. And just like
that -- Brigade v2.6.0+ scripts can be triggered by just about anything in
Azure. And Azure is just the tip of the iceberg since the CloudEvents 1.0
specification is being so widely adopted throughout the cloud-native community.

And that's not all.

Within the past two weeks, we've also cut the first Brigade v2-compatible
[Brigade Bitbucket Gateway](https://github.com/brigadecore/brigade-bitbucket-gateway)
release and the
[Brigade Noisy Neighbor](https://github.com/brigadecore/brigade-noisy-neighbor)
has reached general availability with its v1.0.0 release.

The Bitbucket gateway is admittedly not as full-featured as the
[Brigade GitHub Gateway](https://github.com/brigadecore/brigade-github-gateway),
but provides Brigade v2 with Bitbucket integration on par with that which had
been available for Brigade v1, which is important in light of Brigade v1 having
reached end-of-life on June 1.

The Noisy Neighbor is a useful component for applying a steady load to your own
Brigade v2 installations to gain operational insight. Internally, it was
instrumental in asserting the "fairness" of the Brigade scheduler -- i.e.
verifying that system capacity is allocated pseudorandomly to projects with
queued events and that "noisy neighbors" cannot monopolize all resources.

Stay tuned for more project news next week. In the meantime, enjoy the weekend
and remember that project maintainers can be found on
[the #brigade channel on the Kubernetes Slack](https://slack.brigade.sh)
and are always happy to chat!
