---
title: "Brigade 2.2.0"
slug: "2022-01-04-brigade-2.2.0"
description: "Brigade 2.2.0 has been released"
date: "2022-01-04"
author: "Kent Rancourt"
summary: "Brigade 2.2.0 has been released."
---

Happy New Year, Brigadiers!

We're starting the new year off right with our second minor release of Brigade 2.

v2.2.0 continues the trend started with v2.1.0 by delivering just a handful of small, incremental improvements. Notably, in this release, we've corrected a bug in the user list endpoint and made it easy for script authors to designate jobs as fallible -- that is, _allowed to fail without forcing the overall workflow defined by the script to fail_. This is a great feature for cases where script authors may wish to treat a certain job's failure as informational in nature rather than fatal.

To demonstrate, fallible jobs, consider this trivial fragment of a `brigade.ts` file:

```typescript
events.on("brigade.sh/cli", "exec", async event => {
  let job0 = new Job("test-job0", "alpine", event)
  job0.primaryContainer.command = ["false"]

  let job1 = new Job("test-job1", "alpine", event)
  job1.primaryContainer.command = ["true"]

  await Job.sequence(job0, job1).run()
})
```

In this example, wherein `job0` is destined to always fail, the sequence of `job0` followed by `job1` will never complete and the worker executing this script will _always_ fail. There are existing ways around this, of course, but they require some ingenuity and fair bit of code. With fallible jobs, however, this script requires only the slightest modification to ensure `job0` has no bearing on the success or failure of the sequence and the worker that's executing it:

```typescript
events.on("brigade.sh/cli", "exec", async event => {
  let job0 = new Job("test-job0", "alpine", event)
  job0.primaryContainer.command = ["false"]
  job0.fallible = true

  let job1 = new Job("test-job1", "alpine", event)
  job1.primaryContainer.command = ["true"]

  await Job.sequence(job0, job1).run()
})
```

At the moment, our favorite practical use of this feature is for running `yarn audit` as part of our CI pipelines on JavaScript and TypeScript projects. While we obviously take vulnerabilities reported by `yarn audit` seriously, we've got [Dependabot](https://docs.github.com/en/code-security/supply-chain-security/keeping-your-dependencies-updated-automatically/about-dependabot-version-updates) keeping an eye on those and it is frequently the case that a PR that fails `yarn audit` did not modify project dependencies, is not responsible for the failure, and is merely a victim of poor timing. Rather than allow such PRs to get stuck in limbo while unrelated dependency issues are sorted out, we elect to treat the results of `yarn audit` as informational only. The following fragment demonstrates:

```typescript
events.on("brigade.sh/github", "check_suite:requested", async event => {
  const nodeImg = "node:16.11.0-bullseye"
  
  let test = new Job("test", nodeImg, event)
  test.primaryContainer.command = ["yarn"]
  test.primaryContainer.arguments = ["test"]

  let audit = new Job("audit", nodeImg, event)
  audit.primaryContainer.command = ["yarn"]
  audit.primaryContainer.arguments = ["audit"]
  audit.fallible = true

  await Job.concurrent(test, audit)
})
```

Having now conducted two minor releases in the past month, it's a good time to address the Brigade team's expected release cadence. At this time, we're not committing to any pre-defined release schedule. Rather, we are committing to releasing small batches of incremental improvements on an _ad hoc_ basis. Since we are voracious consumers of our own product and often cannot wait to use our own latest improvements, the Brigade community can reasonably expect minor releases to be frequent in the near term. Of course, we'll _always_ blog about each release right here, so check back often!

Happy scripting, everyone! And until next time, remember you can always find the maintainers on [the #brigade channel on the Kubernetes Slack](https://slack.brigade.sh) if you have questions or need help getting started!
